Quiz
====

Question 1
----------

An if statement can have at most how many else parts?

### Answer

1

Question 2
----------

Consider the Boolean expression not (p or not q). Give the four following values in order, separated only by spaces:

The value of the expression when p is True, and q is True.  
The value of the expression when p is True, and q is False.  
The value of the expression when p is False, and q is True.  
The value of the expression when p is False, and q is False.  

Remember, each of the four results you provide should be True or False with the proper capitalization.

### Answer

False False True False

Question 3
----------

Given a non-negative integer n, which of the following expressions computes the ten's digit of n? For example, if n is 123, then we want the expression to evaluate to 2.

### Answer

(n % 100 - n % 10) / 10  
((n - n % 10) / 10) % 10

### Explanation

1) (n % 100 - n % 10) / 10 : This expression computes the ten's digit correctly.  
2) ((n - n % 10) / 10) % 10 : This expression computes the ten's digit correctly. This is a relatively complicated expression to accomplish the goal.  
3) (n - n % 10) / 10 : This expression does not compute the ten's digit correctly. This expression just truncates the one's digit.  
For more details refer to the python code along with this file.

Question 4
----------

The function calls random.randint(0, 10) and random.randrange(0, 10) generate random numbers in different ranges. What number can be generated by one of these functions, but not the other?

### Answer

10

Question 5
----------

Implement the mathematical function f(x) = -5 x5 + 69 x2 - 47 as a Python function. Then use Python to compute the function values f(0), f(1), f(2), and f(3). Enter the maximum of these four numbers.

### Answer

69

### Explanation

For more details refer to the python code along with this file.

Question 6
----------

When investing money, an important concept to know is compound interest. The equation FV = PV (1+rate)^periods relates the following four quantities.

The present value (PV) of your money is how much money you have now.
The future value (FV) of your money is how much money you will have in the future.
The nominal interest rate per period (rate) is how much interest you earn during a particular length of time, before accounting for compounding. This is typically expressed as a percentage.
The number of periods (periods) is how many periods in the future this calculation is for.
Finish the following code, run it, and submit the printed number. Provide at least four digits of precision after the decimal point.

def future_value(present_value, annual_rate, periods_per_year, years):  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;rate_per_period = annual_rate / periods_per_year  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;periods = periods_per_year * years  
    
    # Put your code here.  

print "$1000 at 2% compounded daily for 3 years yields $", future_value(1000, .02, 365, 3)  

Before submitting your answer, test your function on the following example.   future_value(500, .04, 10, 10) should return 745.317442824.

### Answer

1061.83480113

### Explanation

For more details refer to the python code along with this file.

Question 7
----------

There are several ways to calculate the area of a regular polygon. Given the number of sides, n, and the length of each side, s, the polygon's area is  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(¼ * n * (s^2)) / tan(??/n).  
For example, a regular polygon with 5 sides, each of length 7 inches, has area 84.3033926289 square inches.  
Write a function that calculates the area of a regular polygon, given the number of sides and length of each side. Submit the area of a regular polygon with 7 sides each of length 3 inches. Enter a number (and not the units) with at least four digits of precision after the decimal point.  
Note that the use of inches as the unit of measurement in these examples is arbitrary. Python only keeps track of the numerical values, not the units

### Answer

32.705211996

### Explanation

For more details refer to the python code along with this file.

Question 8
----------

Running the following program results in the error SyntaxError: bad input on line 8 ('return'). Which of the following describes the problem?

def max_of_2(a, b):  
    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;if a > b:  
        &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;return a  
    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;else:  
        &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;return b  

def max_of_3(a, b, c):  
return max_of_2(a, max_of_2(b, c))  

### Answer

Incorrect indentation

### Explanation

The body of the function definition for max_of_3() should be indented, but it is not.  
For more details refer to the python code along with this file.

Question 9
----------

The following code has a number of syntactic errors in it. The intended math calculations are correct, so the only errors are syntactic. Fix the syntactic errors.  
Once the code has been fully corrected, it should print out two numbers. The first should be 1.09888451159. Submit the second number printed in CodeSkulptor. Provide at least four digits of precision after the decimal point.  
define project_to_distance(point_x point_y distance):  
    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;dist_to_origin = math.square_root(pointx ** 2 + pointy ** 2)      
     &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;scale == distance / dist_to_origin  
    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;print point_x * scale, point_y * scale  
project-to-distance(2, 7, 4)  

### Answer

3.84609579056

### Explanation

For more details refer to the python code along with this file.